---
title: 'My work at Shopflix'
date: 2025-05-26T00:00:00.000+00:00
categories:
- en
tags:
- case study
layout: post
main-image: 
lang: en
type: UI, UX, Product
---

From April 2023 until October 2025 I was working as a UI / Product Designer at [Shopflix](https://shopflix.gr/), a major e-commerce marketplace in Greece.

I was initially brought on for UI Design, but over time my role evolved into what we now call Product Design, spanning everything from visual design to component systems and behavior analytics. 

I can’t share details due to the NDA, but here’s the gist of my 2.5 years at Shopflix:

### Year 1
I spent most of my time patching up existing designs as they were being implemented, and rushing to design new features using problematic components in the name of speed and consistency. Alongside that I was creating ad-hoc marketing assets while building a component library in Figma and laying the foundations of a design system on the side. 

Due to the replatforming taking place at the same time, rethinking flows was off the table. I hated adapting work I believed was poorly thought-out, but I developed something unique: 

**I turned complete pages into components** (with variables) **that I could drop into any flow, ensuring all user journeys would always display the latest version**. This solved a major issue: developers would often start working on a feature many months after I’d designed it, and by then there were updates to pages within that flow. Before this approach, they kept accidentally rolling back each other’s work because each person was looking at a different version! 

Here’s the component system in action:

<figure>
  <video autoplay loop muted src="/assets/shopflix/shopflix-checkout-cart-components.mp4" class="w-100 br3"></video>
  <figcaption>Screen recording showing real-time interaction with checkout and cart component instances, toggling variants like device type (desktop/mobile) with instant page updates.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Year 2
With a major deadline gone, I finally had the freedom to explore and pitch improvements. But most of my usability-focused proposals initially got shelved. 

That phase taught me as much about organizational dynamics as it did about design at scale. I gradually built stakeholder buy-in by consistently shipping good work, sharing honest opinions, and pushing back when needed. I also got involved with anything I could help improve, even outside my defined role.

### Year 3
My persistence paid off because on Year 3 an organizational shift allowed me to work on the kind of projects I wanted to from the beginning: remaking core flows from scratch. 

As of writing this, the bulk of my design work has not been implemented yet (so I can’t show it here 😮‍💨), but it includes major updates for the:
- Checkout Flow
- Product Page
- Homepage
- Orders
- Cart

We’d long been aware of the shortcomings, but conflicting priorities did not previously allow the time to address them. I can't describe the satisfaction I felt seeing the enormous usability improvements and it goes without saying that I can't wait to see them live!

I left Shopflix knowing it's on a much better trajectory than when I joined, and I'm confident that the team will continue doing great work to bring the platform to the state we know it can reach!

---

**Why did I leave Shopflix?** To join a stealth startup—an opportunity I couldn't pass up. But that's a story for another day!